well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
how to start your YouTube channel it's a
question I get asked way more than I
thought I would and the backstory to the
question is always the same I've watched
all the videos on YouTube about how to
start a YouTube channel and none of that
stuff works for me and that makes sense
because if you're asking me
odds are you want to build the channel
similar in some way to this one you want
to discuss these topics and if you're
talking about stuff that is news most of
that advice does not apply to you most
the advice that comes in those this is
how you start your YouTube channel has
nothing to do with you in fact it's all
wrong and will hurt you in a lot of ways
those videos are framed for people doing
generalized YouTube content content it's
not what you're doing okay so watch them
because they give you good insight into
how YouTube works but ignore most of the
advice okay so my advice rule 1 be
authentic and that's funny if you know
how this channel started because this
channel started as a joke with me way
overplaying my hillbilly teenis
but what I would point out is that once
I stopped downplaying the hillbilly
nests is when it actually became
successful viewers can't see that
authenticity you may think you're a
great actor but I am living proof that
viewers can see that you you want to be
as authentic as possible now obviously
your public face in your private face
are going to be different but you want
them to be as close together as you can
and they will see that I promise you
number two stay in your lane and that
doesn't mean you can't make a video
outside of what you're passionate about
or an expert on or whatever it means
always find a way to relate it back to
something you know a lot about that way
you're more comfortable and you're more
competent the viewer will see that it
also helps you be write more often
you're not gonna be right all the time
but it'll help you be right more often
number three posting schedule in all of
those YouTube videos about how to be a
youtuber it says maintain a consistent
posting schedule it's like super
important for the algorithm and all of
that don't do it that doesn't apply to
us if you're going to be discussing news
you get that information out as soon as
you can get an accurate read on it as
soon as you you have your take on it and
it's a good one put it out right then
don't wait because if you wait it's
gonna be stale ah number four this is
one that's a hard pill for a lot of
people to swallow nobody cares about you
nobody cares about you a lot of people
when they first start out they want to
do videos about themselves and explain
who they are nobody cares and I know
that seems counterintuitive but they
don't they come to you for content later
on people will start asking who are you
that's when you make those videos I
didn't do my until I had a hundred
thousand subscribers they're coming to
you for content if your content is good
they'll keep coming back let's see
number five be relatable and what that
means is admit that you are flawed
you're gonna make mistakes you've made
mistakes in the past you're gonna make
them in the future it's okay be
relatable admit that
don't try to present yourself as
infallible because if you do eventually
you're gonna make a mistake and then
that's it your your image your mystique
is blown so just be who you are people
that watch this genre they're just like
you who's gonna make these videos you're
trying to grow we're all trying to grow
otherwise we wouldn't be watching stuff
like this part of growing is making
mistakes just just admit it if somebody
corrects you and the comment if it's a
big enough mistake make a video
explaining it number six don't be
sensational this is when people like to
argue with too
you know well this video is real
sensational and they got a million views
yeah it did but look at the channel you
want long-term channel growth alright
you don't just want one video that did
really well and now people make fun of
you for it so don't be sensational you
don't have to have click baby titles
that are you know saying the world is
going to end you can find a way to make
your titles interesting without
forecasting doom all the time so who
wants to wake up and do that that just
don't do that that's just bad
number seven the algorithm is not a
thing at least not the way most people
picture it when they talk about it it's
not something out there that's some kind
of esoteric nonsense it's real simple
the algorithm has one job that is to
keep the viewer on YouTube for as long
as humanly possible that's all it does
once you understand that it becomes
really easy to to look at your analytics
and help grow your channel I can tell
you that more than likely this video
will get half of its views that it's
going to get by the end of the week
within the first four hours after it's
posted because that's always the case
occasionally there are exceptions it
pops viral afterward but normally that's
what happens for me and that's because
of you guys now we're going to interact
in the comments section and talk about
it and that keeps you on YouTube longer
so YouTube will continue to recommend
that video as long as you guys are
active in the comments section it's
really that simple don't look at it as
an enemy look at it as a tool once you
understand what it's there to do for
YouTube number eight use Easter eggs
flipped upside down Curious George
t-shirts that match your content maybe
you put something on the shelves behind
you occasionally don't use mine but do
something like that because at least for
me the marketing stuff that I want to
use is stuff that actually adds value to
the viewers you guys
because that helps build a community and
we're going to come back to why that's
important to me here in a second but
even if that's not your goal you want
stuff that people will talk about you
want stuff that will help promote you
without being over commercialized so
definitely use Easter eggs but not mine
come up with your own number nine each
video needs to stand on its own as a
piece of content and fit into an overall
arc easier said than done ever come into
a TV series halfway through you don't
know what's going on nobody likes that
so each video needs to be standalone but
if you're producing a lot of content you
want it to fit into an arc you want it
to fit into an arc so your longtime
viewers get a story now I make this
mistake especially with rapidly
developing events like last week if you
came in to like the third or fourth the
video talking about that you're
completely lost my bad I'm flawed it
happens but generally you don't want to
do that
you you want it to each piece to be able
to stand alone number ten this is the
big one identify what you want your
platform to do mentioned earlier build a
community that's the goal of this that's
the goal of this channel is to build a
community that can then enter the real
world and build community based
organizations we talked about a lot on
here that's actually the goal of the
channel if your channel doesn't have a
goal it's gonna be real hard to figure
out where to go having a successful
YouTube channel isn't goal that's a wish
come up with a goal that you can work
towards and that way you can measure
against it and it helps keep you
motivated helps keep me motivated anyway
so that that's the idea and if you're
doing that you can make decisions like
the Easter eggs it benefits the
community which is the actual goal of
the channel
so you've got to figure out your goal
and it may not be that it could be a
whole bunch of different things it could
just be to bring awareness to something
but you've just got to figure it out and
I would do that before you really start
producing content
number eleven only make a video if you
have something you can add to the
conversation if you're just gonna make a
video that's like everybody else's video
on it it's gonna get lost especially if
you're new
the popular person that's gonna get the
traction not you and so you want to
bring a fresh tank to any discussion
that you approach and if you don't have
an original thought to add to it
step back ask a wider question or move
in and ask a more nuanced question or
relate it to something in history again
don't take all of my stuff but I mean
you get the idea
find some way to approach it from a
fresh angle that way the viewer gets
some value from it okay number twelve
experiment lightly when people start
watching a YouTube channel especially if
the whole goal is to build a community
there's a relationship that develops you
interact in the comments you actually
get to know the people watching and they
get to know you when you make changes it
can be unsettling even something as
simple as a background so use the
background once and then go back to your
normal routine bring it back again do
stuff slowly don't make a whole bunch of
changes at once they'll lose you in the
recommendations because the thumbnail
won't look the same either in fact you
can look and see that videos filmed here
tend to get more views than those on the
background especially that first week
until people see it pop up in their
recommendations a few times and they're
like oh I know that guy generally people
recognize the background before they
recognize me because I look like every
bearded bald hat-wearing guy on YouTube
number thirteen ignore the money you're
not gonna get rich doing this I mean I
know that some people have but you're
not going to be Ryan
more than likely ignore the money you
can eke out a living doing this it's a
lot more work than it seems but do it
for whatever your goal is have a goal
have a reason to do it and you'll be a
whole lot more successful than just
trying to do it for a job because if it
won't work that way
so there's my thirteen piece of pieces
of advice for two youtubers I guess and
so now I can just refer people to this
rather than answer the questions anyway
I hope everybody got some value out of
it this is just a thought you'll have a
good night